[intro music]
Hello. Welcome to another
EarSketch video.
My name is Takumi, and I'm
a member of the EarSketch team.
In this video I will talk
about how to use makeBeat
to create an original beat.
Now that we learn about strings,
beat strings,
and EarSketch’s
makeBeat function,
let's make some music
using these.
makeBeat allows you
to compose music note by note.
So it is perfect
for creating new drum beats.
Think you have
the next radio-ready beat?
Let's get started.
Let's start off by defining
some variables
for the sounds that we are
going to use in this script.
We'll call the first one "synth"
and we'll be looking for a clip
in the sound browser
the same way we usually do
for fitMedia
in the EarSketch sound browser.
We can either search
through the list
or search by genre or artists.
In this code example, let's look
for a filtered chord sound.
[music]
Cool, let's use this one.
So we’ll paste that in.
For the second sound,
a cymbal,
we’ll do this
in a slightly different way.
We're going to look
for a special kind of sound
in the EarSketch song library
called a one-shot sound file.
All the sounds that we have
been using up to now
are loops that last for 1,
2, 3, or 4 measures.
But one-shot sound file
is just a single hit.
For example,
a single hit of a drum sound.
In this case it is a cymbal.
This type of sound
is especially useful
when using a makeBeat call for
building rhythm or drum pattern.
Once your sounds are located
in a special place
inside of the EarSketch
sound library.
If you go to the Artists
filter here and pick makeBeat,
then we’ll find
all the one-shot sound files.
So if you played a clap,
we'll simply get a single clap.
[clap]
If you play the high hat here,
we get a single high hat sound.
Let's paste that into the script
for our cymbal sound.
Just like how
we can define variable
to represent a sound
from the library,
we can define a variable
to represent beat string.
So we’ll first define a beat1
and as you may remember,
a string for beat string
are 16 character letters long,
which represent a total of
16 individual sixteenth notes.
These make up one full measure
of a beat.
And if you don't know how to get
started on creating a beat,
don't worry.
You can randomly put zero,
plus signs, and negative signs,
and listen to it
and start adjusting
or changing little by little
until you create a beat
that you like.
Here's the rhythm that I came up
with using that technique.
Da da da da da da da da.
Here's another beat string
that I came up with.
Da da da da da da da da.
So we define our sounds
and we define our beat strings
as variables,
so we are now ready to use
these in the makeBeat function.
The first argument in makeBeat
is the sound
that we want to use,
so we use the synth variable.
The second argument
is the track.
So we'll begin with 1.
The third argument
is the measure
in which the beat starts at
and we’ll start from measure 1.
The final argument is the beat
string, so we'll use beat1.
We can go ahead and hit Run
to hear what this sounds like.
[music]
We'll do something similar
with cymbal rhythm.
First argument will be cymbal.
Second argument is 2.
Third argument is 1.
And final argument is beat2.
Now let's listen to it together.
[music]
Now, you may have noticed
that the beat plays
for only one measure.
In music, beats are usually
repeated multiple times
or looped in a song.
So we need to figure out
an efficient way to loop
to speed
that we've just created.
If we wanted to play this
for more than one time,
we could just copy this line
and type 2
for the measure arguments
and repeat the process
multiple times like this.
And now when we hit Run,
we have a repeating beat.
[music]
The problem with this method
is that it takes a lot of time
and makes the code
look really messy.
In the next chapter, we'll learn
a new coding technique
that will allow you
to easily repeat
or loop part of your code
to achieve repetition,
while keeping your code
looking clean.
Thanks for watching.
[music]